[ADD] accounting/l10n_uy: uruguay (#9849)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/uruguay.rst

proceeding steps:

Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configuration --> Settings: Uruguay Localization section`. Take a note of the admin email address
that is set, this will be the same email used in Uruware. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware
Account`.

.. note::
   This action will create an account with Uruware with the following information:

   - Legal name (razón social)
   - RUT from the company
   - Administrator email
   - User name and last name
   - Odoo database link

.. important::
   Add in any of the information that is missing to create your account.

Once the account is created, a confirmation email is sent to the email used to create the account,
containing the account credentials to configure the account directly in the Uruware portal:

- Testing portal: https://odootest.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/
- Production portal: https://prod6109.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/

Use the account credentials in the email to log in to the portal.

Electronic invoice data
-----------------------

To configure the electronic invoice data, an environment and credentials need to be configured. To

> do so, navigate to :menuselection:`... --> ...`.

Reviewer: :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Settings --> Localización Ecuatoriana`.

Configure master data
---------------------

Chart of accounts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`chart of accounts <../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts>` is installed by default
as part of the set of data included in the localization module, the accounts are mapped
automatically in taxes, default accounts payable, and default accounts receivable.

Accounts can by added or deleted according to the company's needs.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts`

Contacts
~~~~~~~~

To create a contact, navigate to :menuselection:`Contacts app` and select :guilabel:`New`. Then
enter the following information:

- :guilabel:`Company Name`
- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

- :guilabel:`Identification Number`:

  - :guilabel:`Type`: select a identification number type.
  - :guilabel:`Number`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

Review taxes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As part of the Uruguay localization module, taxes are automatically created with its configuration

> and related financial accounts.

Author: Need navigation instructions to where taxes can be reviewed.

Reviewer: Add the following:

To review these taxes, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Taxes`.

.. image:: uruguay/taxes.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Taxes for Uruguay.

Review document types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some accounting transactions like *Customer Invoices* and *Vendor Bills* are classified by document
types. These are defined by the government fiscal authorities, in this case by the |DGI|.

Each document type can have a unique sequence per journal where it is assigned. The data is created
automatically when the localization module is installed, and the information required for the

> document types is included by default.

Reviewer: Add the following:

To review these taxes, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Document Types`.

> document types is included by default.

Reviewer 2: > Add the following:
> 
> To review these taxes, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Document Types`.

"To review the document types included in the localization:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Document Types`"

=======
Uruguay
=======

.. |DGI| replace:: :abbr:`DGI (Dirección General Impositiva)`
.. |EDI| replace:: :abbr:`EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)`

Introduction
============

With the Uruguayan localization, you can generate electronic documents with its XML, fiscal folio,
electronic signature and connection to tax authority Dirección General Impositiva (DGI) through
Uruware.

The supported documents are:

> - Invoices, credit notes, debit notes;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- e-Invoice, e-Invoice Credit Notes, e-Invoice Debit Notes;
```

> - e-ticket e-ticket credit notes, e-ticket debit notes;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- e-Ticket, e-Ticket Credit Notes, e-Ticket Debit Notes;
```

> - Export e-invoice, export e-credit notes, export e-debit notes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Export e-Invoice, Export e-Invoice Credit Note, Export e-Invoice Debit Note.
```

Reviewer 2: Added this comments to be consistent on how the documents are named in the database.

The localization requires an Uruware account, which enables users to generate electronic documents
within Odoo.

Glossary
------------

The following terms are used throughout the Uruguayan localization:

> - **DGI**: *Dirección General Impositiva* is the government organization that enforces pay of
>   taxes in Uruguay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **DGI**: *Dirección General Impositiva* is the government entity responsible for enforcing tax
  payments in Uruguay.
```

- **EDI**: *Electronic Data Interchange* refers to the sending of electronic documents.
- **Uruware**: is the third-party organization that facilitates the interchange of electronic
  documents between companies and the Uruguayan government.

Configuration
=============

Modules installation
--------------------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the following modules to get all the features of the Uruguayan
localization:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Uruguay - Accounting`
     - `l10n_uy`
     - The default :doc:`fiscal localization package <../fiscal_localizations>`, adds accounting
       characteristics for the Uruguayan localization, which represent the minimum configuration
       required for a company to operate in Uruguay according to the guidelines set by the |DGI|.
       The module's installation automatically loads: chart of accounts, taxes, documents types, and

>        tax support types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       tax supported types.
```

   * - :guilabel:`Uruguay Accounting EDI`
     - `l10n_uy_edi`
     - Includes all the technical and functional requirements to generate and validate
       :doc:`Electronics Documents <../accounting/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing>`, based on
       the technical documentation published by the |DGI|. The authorized documents are: invoices,

>        credit notes and debit notes.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the other documents like before (lines 17-19) or should we leave these as example. I suggest to, at least, refer to the previous documents mentioned above.

.. note::
   Odoo automatically installs the base module *Uruguay - Accounting* when a database is

>    installed with `Uruguay` selected as the country.

Reviewer 2: We should mention that they would need to install the l10n_uy_edi afterwards (if they want to have electronic invoicing, of course).

Configure your company
----------------------

To configure your company information, go to the :menuselection:`Settings --> Companies: Update
Info` and configure the following:

- :guilabel:`Company Name`
- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`

- :guilabel:`Tax ID`: enter the identification number for the selected taxpayer type.

> - :guilabel:`DGI Main Branch Code`:

Reviewer 2: Brief description of what this field is and point out to get it from Uruware.

Reviewer: Please add:

- :guilabel:'DGI Main Branch Code': This value is part of the XML when creating an electronic document. If not set, all electronic documents will be rejected. To get this number, follow these steps:
1. Go to 'Servicios en línea DGI' page.
2. Select option 'Registro único tributario -> Consulta de datos- (menu link at the right side).
3. Select the option 'Consulta de Datos Registrales -> Consulta de Datos de Entidades'.
4. Open the generated PDF. Get the number on section 'Domicilio Fiscal -> Número de Local'.

After configuring the company in the database settings, navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts` and
search for your company to verify the following:

- Company type is set to :guilabel:`Company`.
- Verify the :guilabel:`Identification Number` :guilabel:`Type` is :guilabel:`RUT / RUC`.

.. _l10n_uy/uruware-account:

Set up Uruware account
----------------------

To generate electronic documents in Odoo, a Uruware account is necessary.

> To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription and the data of the company correctly filled in. Then follow the steps
```

Not sure if format-wise my suggestion will work, you can rephrase it, but be sure to add that info, the company's information has to be complete.

proceeding steps:

Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configuration --> Settings: Uruguay Localization section`. Take a note of the admin email address
that is set, this will be the same email used in Uruware. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware
Account`.

.. note::
   This action will create an account with Uruware with the following information:

   - Legal name (razón social)
   - RUT from the company
   - Administrator email
   - User name and last name
   - Odoo database link

.. important::
   Add in any of the information that is missing to create your account.

Once the account is created, a confirmation email is sent to the email used to create the account,
containing the account credentials to configure the account directly in the Uruware portal:

- Testing portal: https://odootest.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/
- Production portal: https://prod6109.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/

> Use the account credentials in the email to log in to the portal.

Reviewer 2: We should add a comment somehow (could be as an important note) that they will need to create a testing account and a production account. And that they just can create the account once.

To configure the electronic invoice data, an environment and credentials need to be configured. To
do so, navigate to :menuselection:`... --> ...`.

First, select the :guilabel:`UCFE Web Services` environment:

- :guilabel:`Production`: for production databases. In this mode, electronic documents are sent to
  |DGI| through Uruware for their validation.
- :guilabel:`Testing`: for test databases. In this mode, the direct connection flows can be tested,
  with the files sent to the |DGI| testing environment through Uruware.
- :guilabel:`Demo`: files are created and accepted automatically in demo mode but are **not** sent
  to the |DGI|. For this reason, rejection errors will not appear in this mode. Every internal
  validation can be tested in demo mode. Avoid selecting this option in a production database.

Then, enter the :guilabel:`Uruware Credentials`:

- :guilabel:`Uruware WS Password`
- :guilabel:`Commerce Code`
- :guilabel:`Terminal Code`

.. image:: uruguay/electronic-invoice-data.png
   :alt: Required information for electronic invoice.
   :align: center

.. note::
   These credentials can be obtained from the email received when the :ref:`Uruguay account was

>    created <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`.

Reviewer 2: Not really, and actually we should be careful, the credentials they receive in the email will be to configure their account in Uruware, and in Uruware they will get these credentials (Uruware WS password, commerce code and terminal code).

enter the following information:

- :guilabel:`Company Name`
- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

- :guilabel:`Identification Number`:

  - :guilabel:`Type`: select a identification number type.
  - :guilabel:`Number`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

Review taxes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As part of the Uruguay localization module, taxes are automatically created with its configuration
and related financial accounts.

.. image:: uruguay/taxes.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Taxes for Uruguay.

Review document types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some accounting transactions like *Customer Invoices* and *Vendor Bills* are classified by document
types. These are defined by the government fiscal authorities, in this case by the |DGI|.

Each document type can have a unique sequence per journal where it is assigned. The data is created
automatically when the localization module is installed, and the information required for the

> document types is included by default.

Reviewer 2: Although this is true, we should add a note to specify that in Uruguay CAE are needed and have to be uploaded in Uruware. In Odoo we will get the sequence from Uruware based on their CAEs (works like in Chile, but in Uruguay they need to upload them in Uruware). CAEs are only used in production, in test they just need to set the range of sequences to be used in Uruware.

Reviewer: We should add the following note @samueljlieber 

.. note::
   It is necessary to upload the document type sequence (known as CAE) in the Uruware portal. Odoo will get the sequence and PDF file from Uruware based on the CAEs. CAEs are only used in production. For the testing environment, a set range of sequences is needed. This is set in the testing portal from Uruware.

.. image:: uruguay/document-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Document types for Uruguay,

Sales journals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To generate and confirm an electronic document that will be validated by |DGI|, the sales journal
needs to be configured with the following:

> - :guilabel:`Invoicing Type`: manual invoices are for open invoices previously stamped in another

Reviewer 2: The electronic option is missing here with its explanation. And electronic will be set by default.

Reviewer: Add following bullet point @samueljlieber

- :guilabel:`Ecuadorina Edi format`: This checkbox will be active by default. This is necessary to send electronic documents via web service to the Ecuadorian government.

Reviewer 2: > Add following bullet point @samueljlieber
> 
> * :guilabel:`Ecuadorian edi format`: This checkbox will be active by default. This is necessary to send electronic documents via web service to the Ecuadorian government.

@rps-odoo Ecuadorian? 🤔

Reviewer: @fvz-odoo don't ask me, ask Odoo
![Screenshot 2024-07-08 at 2 31 32 PM](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/79879654/57ccf18a-1fa4-4b20-a794-5b7757e78e37)

Reviewer 2: > @fvz-odoo don't ask me, ask Odoo. I will change it to Spanish.
> 
> ![Screenshot 2024-07-08 at 2 31 32 PM](https://private-user-images.githubusercontent.com/79879654/346716551-57ccf18a-1fa4-4b20-a794-5b7757e78e37.png?jwt=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.iqixzT38eeGnn2M2y_J_A8UEXxADnghutIdT07yogqo)

Hello @rps-odoo 

Mmmm, I don't understand why we have this setting in the Uruguayan localization. We're probably talking about different things? 

In the Uruguayan localization we have a selection field (l10n_uy_edi_type):
![Screenshot 2024-07-08 at 2 08 27 PM](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/75649179/f4e36d99-052f-44d8-80e5-28feff7b43e3)

If, for some reason, we have that Ecuadorian field in our module, we have something wrong, but I don't see it. Can you please confirm we have it and that we're talking about the same thing?

Let me know.

Cheers!

Fernando

@samueljlieber

Reviewer: @fvz-odoo Ops, I am confusing myself. I am also working on another PR for Ecuador and got confused. Don't worry,  everything seems as you explain. @samueljlieber please ignore all these comments and just add the following:

:guilabel:'Invoicing Type': This option will have 'Electronic' value set by default. This is necessary to send electronic documents via web service to the Ecuadorian government.

Reviewer 2: > @fvz-odoo Ops, I am confusing myself. I am also working on another PR for Ecuador and got confused. Don't worry, everything seems as you explain. @samueljlieber please ignore all these comments and just add the following:
> 
> * :guilabel:'Invoicing Type': This option will have 'Electronic' value set by default. This is necessary to send electronic documents via web service to the Ecuadorian government.

One thing @samueljlieber, please, just make sure it says **Uruguayan** government at the end 😅.

>   system, for example directly in the |DGI|. Electronic invoices will not be sent to Uruware.

Reviewer 2: This is a little confusing, because it says electronic invoices will not be sent to Uruware, but if they select "electronic" they will be sent to Uruware, maybe rephrase this paragraph to explain the manual option with "manual invoices are for open invoices previously stamped in another system, for example in the DGI" and then explain the electronic option.

Reviewer: Please rephrase bullet point @samueljlieber 

- :guilabel:'Invoicing Type': This option will have 'Electronic' value set by default. This is necessary to send electronic documents via web service to the Uruguayan government. The other option ('Manual') is for open invoices previously stamped in another system, for example, in the DGI.

Reviewer 2: @samueljlieber somehow this was shown as resolved but it wasn't, can you please rephrase to:

:guilabel:'Invoicing Type': This option will have 'Electronic' value set by default. This is necessary to send electronic documents via web service to the Uruguayan government through Uruware. The other option ('Manual') is for open invoices previously stamped in another system, for example, in the DGI.

Reviewer 2: This one also @samueljlieber can you please check? 😉

> - :guilabel:`Use Documents?`: Activate this option if this journal will be used to generate
>   electronic documents and sent to the government through Uruware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Use Documents?`: Activate this option if this journal will use documents from the list of document types in Odoo.
```

This boolean is to be able to select document types in account.move, but you can also select it if the journal is manual (example, a journal used for open invoices with different document types).

.. image:: uruguay/sales-journal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sales Journal for Uruguay.

Workflows
=========

Once you have configured your database, you can create your documents.

Sales documents
---------------

Customer invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:guilabel:`Customer invoices` are electronic documents that, when validated, are sent to |DGI| via
Uruware. These documents can be created from your sales order or manually. They must contain the
following data:

- :guilabel:`Customer`: type the customer's information.
- :guilabel:`Due date`: to compute if the invoice is due now or later (contado or crédito
  respectively).

> - :guilabel:`Journal`: select the sales electronic journal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the electronic sales journal.
```

> - :guilabel:`Document Type`: type document type in this format, for example, `(111) e-Invoice`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: document type in this format, for example, `(111) e-Invoice`.
```

- :guilabel:`Products`: specify the product with the correct taxes.

Customer credit note
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`Customer credit note <../accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes>` is an electronic
document that, when validated, is sent to |DGI| via Uruware. It is necessary to have a validated
(posted) invoice to register a credit note. On the invoice there is a button named :guilabel:`Credit

> note`, click on this button to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note` form, then complete

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
note`, click this button to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note` form, then complete
```

the following information:

- :guilabel:`Reason`: type the reason for the credit note.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the journal that has to be electronic and has the :guilabel:`Use
  Documents?` option active.
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: select the credit note document type.
- :guilabel:`Reversal Date`: type the date.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a note here that every document type has its specific credit note and debit note, example e-Invoice > e-Invoice credit Note or e-Ticket > e-Ticket Credit Note.

Customer debit note
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`Customer debit note <../accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes>` is an electronic
document that, when validated, is sent to |DGI| via Uruware. It is necessary to have a validated
(posted) invoice to register a debit note. On the action within an invoice there is a option named
:guilabel:`Debit note`, click on this action to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note`
form, then complete the following information:

- :guilabel:`Reason`: type the reason for the credit note.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the journal that has to be electronic and has the :guilabel:`Use
  Documents?` option active.
- :guilabel:`Copy lines`: mark checkbox to copy the invoice lines to the debit note.
- :guilabel:`Debit note date`: type the date.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add [this note](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/9849/files#r1653641712) here, since it refers to both credit and debit notes.

.. note::
   The document sequence (number) is brought from Uruware once the document has been processed.

.. note::
   The PDF of the validated document is pulled from Uruware following the specification by the
   Uruguayan government (DGI).

Addendas and disclosures
========================

*Addendas* and *disclosures* are additional notes and comments added to an electronic document that
can be mandatory or optional. To create a new addenda, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Settings
--> DGI --> Addendas and disclosures`.

To create an addenda, the following information is required:

- :guilabel:`Name`: Name of the Addenda or Mandatory Disclosure.
- :guilabel:`Apply on`: Select the documents where the addenda or mandatory disclosure are
  applicable.
- :guilabel:`Type`: Select the type of remark, this will add it to the specific section in the XML.
- :guilabel:`Content`: Add the complete text of the addenda or disclosure.
- :guilabel:`Is disclosure?`: Select this box if the text is a mandatory disclosure, leave it blank

>   if it is additional information.

Reviewer 2: We removed the "Apply on" filed. Let's remove it from here too. Also the "Is disclosure" field changed to "Is Legend" and goes before the content.

Leyenda and additional information in product
---------------------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the product and XML, it is necessary to add the
preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the product in the invoice line. The field called
:guilabel:`Disclosure` will be used to add the leyenda to the product specified in the line.

Leyenda and additional information in document
----------------------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the electronic document and XML, it is necessary to
add the preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the document using the field :guilabel:`Addenda and
Disclosures` that can be found in the *Other Info* tab in the document form view. The addenda and

> disclosures added here will appear in the XML and visibly in the PDF document.

Reviewer 2: This applies for leyendas and additional information in documents + issuer, receiver and actual addendas. Just expand the explanation to all 4 of them.

Reviewer: @samueljlieber rephrase section with:

=======
Uruguay
=======

.. |DGI| replace:: :abbr:`DGI (Dirección General Impositiva)`
.. |EDI| replace:: :abbr:`EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)`

.. _uruguay/intro:

Introduction
============

With the Uruguayan localization, you can generate electronic documents with its XML, fiscal folio,
electronic signature and connection to tax authority Dirección General Impositiva (DGI) through
Uruware.

The supported documents are:

- e-Invoice, e-Invoice Credit Note, e-Invoice Debit Note;
- e-Ticket, e-Ticket Credit Note, e-Ticket Debit Note;
- Export e-Invoice, Export e-Invoice Credit Note, Export e-Invoice Debit Note.

The localization requires an Uruware account, which enables users to generate electronic documents
within Odoo.

Glossary
--------

The following terms are used throughout the Uruguayan localization:

- **DGI**: *Dirección General Impositiva* is the government entity responsible for enforcing tax
  payments in Uruguay.
- **EDI**: *Electronic Data Interchange* refers to the sending of electronic documents.
- **Uruware**: is the third-party organization that facilitates the interchange of electronic
  documents between companies and the Uruguayan government.

> 

Reviewer 2: We can add:

- **CAE**: *Constancia de Autorización de Emisión* is a document requested from the tax authority's website to
   enable electronic invoice issuance.

     Fiscal Número de Local` section.

After configuring the company in the database settings, navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts` and
search for your company to verify the following:

- Company type is set to :guilabel:`Company`.
- Verify the :guilabel:`Identification Number` :guilabel:`Type` is :guilabel:`RUT / RUC`.

.. _l10n_uy/uruware-account:

Set up Uruware account
----------------------

To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the
proceeding steps.

Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configurations --> Settings --> Localización Uruguaya`. Then, click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware
Account`.

Upon doing so, an email is sent to the address associated with your Odoo subscription with the
username and password to enter Uruware's portal and setup your account.

.. tip::
   Your :guilabel:`Tax ID` needs to be setup to be able to create your account.

.. note::
   This action will create an account with Uruware with the following information:

   - Legal name (razón social)
   - RUT from the company

>    - Administrator email
>    - User name and last name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - User name will be your RUT.odoo
```
@samueljlieber

   - Odoo database link

   To ensure your account is created correctly, please add any missing information from above.

> Once the account is created, a confirmation email is sent to the email used to create the account,
> containing the account credentials to configure the account directly in the Uruware portal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the account is created, a confirmation email is sent to the email linked to your subscription in Odoo,
containing the credentials to configure the account directly in the Uruware portal:
```
@samueljlieber

   can be changed in Uruware and the same can be used in both environments.

Electronic invoice data
-----------------------

To configure the electronic invoice data, an environment and credentials need to be configured. To
do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Uruguayan Localization`.

First, select the :guilabel:`UCFE Web Services` environment:

- :guilabel:`Production`: for production databases. In this mode, electronic documents are sent to
  |DGI| through Uruware for their validation.
- :guilabel:`Testing`: for test databases. In this mode, the direct connection flows can be tested,
  with the files sent to the |DGI| testing environment through Uruware.
- :guilabel:`Demo`: files are created and accepted automatically in demo mode but are **not** sent
  to the |DGI|. For this reason, rejection errors will not appear in this mode. Every internal
  validation can be tested in demo mode. Avoid selecting this option in a production database.

Then, enter the :guilabel:`Uruware Data`:

- :guilabel:`Uruware WS Password`
- :guilabel:`Commerce Code`
- :guilabel:`Terminal Code`

> .. image:: uruguay/electronic-invoice-data.png

Reviewer 2: Hello @samueljlieber 

One quick change since I told you the change in the text but didn't see the image. Can you change the above image to this one (will send you the file through discord):

![Screenshot 2024-09-05 at 2 13 22 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/35673177-ed72-493f-a05f-ba299a038c59)

Let me know if anything!

Thanks!

   :alt: Required information for electronic invoice.

.. note::
   This data can be obtained from the Uruware portal, after configuring the :ref:`Uruware account
   <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`. The :guilabel:`Uruware WS Password` differs from the password you use
   to enter your Uruware account.

Configure master data
---------------------

Chart of accounts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`chart of accounts <../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts>` is installed by default
as part of the set of data included in the localization module, the accounts are mapped
automatically in taxes, default accounts payable, and default accounts receivable.

> Accounts can by added or deleted according to the company's needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accounts can be added or deleted according to the company's needs.
```
@samueljlieber

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts`

Contacts
~~~~~~~~

To create a contact, navigate to :menuselection:`Contacts app` and select :guilabel:`New`. Then
enter the following information:

- :guilabel:`Company Name`
- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

- :guilabel:`Identification Number`:

>   - :guilabel:`Type`: select a identification number type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Type`: select a identification type.
```
@samueljlieber

needs to be configured with the following:

- :guilabel:`Invoicing Type`: manual invoices are for open invoices previously stamped in another
  system, for example directly in the |DGI|. Electronic invoices will not be sent to Uruware.
- :guilabel:`Use Documents?`: Activate this option if this journal will use documents from the list
  of document types in Odoo.

Workflows
=========

Once you have configured your database, you can create your documents.

Sales documents
---------------

Customer invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:guilabel:`Customer invoices` are electronic documents that, when validated, are sent to |DGI| via
Uruware. These documents can be created from your sales order or manually. They must contain the
following data:

- :guilabel:`Customer`: type the customer's information.
- :guilabel:`Due date`: to compute if the invoice is due now or later (contado or crédito
  respectively).
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the electronic sales journal.
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: document type in this format, for example, `(111) e-Invoice`.
- :guilabel:`Products`: specify the product with the correct taxes.

.. note::

>    Every document type has a specific credit note and debit note (e.g., the document type *(111)
>    e-Invoice* has an *e-Invoice* credit note).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Every document type has a specific credit note and debit note (e.g., the document type *(111)
   e-Invoice* has an *(112) e-Invoice Credit Note*).
```
@samueljlieber

the following information:

- :guilabel:`Reason`: type the reason for the credit note.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the journal that has to be electronic and has the :guilabel:`Use
  Documents?` option active.
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: select the credit note document type.
- :guilabel:`Reversal Date`: type the date.

Customer debit note
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`Customer debit note <../accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes>` is an electronic
document that, when validated, is sent to |DGI| via Uruware. It is necessary to have a validated
(posted) invoice to register a debit note. On the action within an invoice there is a option named
:guilabel:`Debit note`, click on this action to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note`
form, then complete the following information:

- :guilabel:`Reason`: type the reason for the debit note.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the journal that has to be electronic and has the :guilabel:`Use
  Documents?` option active.
- :guilabel:`Copy lines`: mark checkbox to copy the invoice lines to the debit note.
- :guilabel:`Debit note date`: type the date.

> .. note::
>    The document sequence (number) is brought from Uruware once the document has been processed.

Reviewer 2: Let's add something important here, please, @samueljlieber:

```suggestion
.. note::
    Confirm the invoice and it will be created with an internal reference. To send the document to DGI via Uruware,
    click on "Send and Print" and select the checkbox "Create CFE". The legal document sequence (number) is
    brought from Uruware once the document has been processed. Make sure you have CAEs available in Uruware.
```

- :guilabel:`Is legend`: Select this box if the text is a mandatory disclosure, leave it blank if it
  is additional information.
- :guilabel:`Content`: Add the complete text of the addenda or disclosure.

Leyenda and additional information in product
---------------------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the product and XML, it is necessary to add the
preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the product in the invoice line. The field called
:guilabel:`Disclosure` will be used to add the leyenda to the product specified in the line.

Leyenda and additional information
----------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the electronic document and XML, it is necessary to
add the preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the document using the field :guilabel:`Addenda and
Disclosures` that can be found in the *Other Info* tab in the document form view. The addenda and
disclosures added here will appear in the XML and visibly in the PDF document.

This applies to the following types of addendas:

- Document
- Issuer
- Receiver

> - Addendas

Reviewer 2: We can also add at the end, please, @samueljlieber:

.. note::
   To add a temporary note to the electronic document, use the Terms and Conditions field, this information will be
   sent in the addenda of the invoice, but it won't be saved for future documents.

  - :guilabel:`Country`

- :guilabel:`Tax ID`: Enter the identification number for the selected taxpayer type.
- :guilabel:`DGI Main Branch Code`: This is part of the XML when creating an electronic document. If
  this field is not set, all electronic documents will be rejected.

  To find the *DGI Main Branch Code*, follow these steps:

  #. From your :ref:`Uruware account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`, go to :menuselection:`Servicios en
     línea DGI --> Registro único tributario --> Consulta de datos`.
  #. Then, select :menuselection:`Consulta de Datos Registrales --> Consulta de Datos de Entidades`.
  #. Next, open the generated PDF to get the *DGI Main Branch Code* from the :guilabel:`Domicilio
     Fiscal Número de Local` section.

After configuring the company in the database settings, navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts` and
search for your company to verify the following:

- Company type is set to :guilabel:`Company`.
- Verify the :guilabel:`Identification Number` :guilabel:`Type` is :guilabel:`RUT / RUC`.

.. _l10n_uy/uruware-account:

Set up Uruware account
----------------------

To generate electronic documents in Odoo, a Uruware account is necessary.

> To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the steps
> proceeding steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the
proceeding steps:
```

Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configurations --> Settings --> Localización Uruguaya`. Take a note of the admin email address that

> is set, this will be the same email used in Uruware. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware Account`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is set, this will be the same email used in Uruware's portal. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware Account`.
```

> To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the
> proceeding steps:
> 
> Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
> Configurations --> Settings --> Localización Uruguaya`. Take a note of the admin email address that
> is set, this will be the same email used in Uruware's portal. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware
> Account`.
> 
> .. tip::
>    Enter the email of the administrator or project leader. Avoid using the same email as the one
>    used for communication with the |DGI|.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the
proceeding steps:

Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configurations --> Settings --> Localización Uruguaya`. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware
Account`. You will receive an email to the address associated with your Odoo subscription with the  
username and password to enter Uruware's portal and setup your account.

.. tip::
   Your  :guilabel:`Tax ID` needs to be setup to be able to create your account.
```

Sorry for this last minute change @samueljlieber but the "admin email" field will no longer be available. The email that will be used will be the one associated to the customers's Odoo subscription for security reasons.

   - RUT from the company
   - Administrator email
   - User name and last name
   - Odoo database link

>    Add in any of the information that is missing to create your account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To ensure your account is created correctly, please add any missing information from above.
```

   - Administrator email
   - User name and last name
   - Odoo database link

   To ensure your account is created correctly, please add any missing information from above.

Once the account is created, a confirmation email is sent to the email used to create the account,
containing the account credentials to configure the account directly in the Uruware portal:

- Testing portal: https://odootest.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/
- Production portal: https://prod6109.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/

Use the account credentials in the email to log in to the portal.

.. important::

>    Be sure to configure a testing account and a production account in the Uruware portal. The same
>    Uruware account can be used for both environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Be sure to configure two accounts, one for testing and one for production. The email address 
   can be changed in Uruware and the same can be used in both environments.
```

Author: https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/9849#discussion_r1715487691 implemented in 7d28b87

       the technical documentation published by the |DGI|. The authorized documents are :ref:`listed
       above <uruguay/intro>`.

.. note::
   Odoo automatically installs the base module *Uruguay - Accounting* when a database is installed
   with `Uruguay` selected as the country. However, to enable electronic invoicing, the *Uruguay
   Accounting EDI* (`l10n_uy_edi`) module needs to be manually :ref:`installed <general/install>`.

Configure your company
----------------------

To configure your company information, go to the :menuselection:`Settings --> Companies: Update
Info` and configure the following:

- :guilabel:`Company Name`
- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`

- :guilabel:`Tax ID`: Enter the identification number for the selected taxpayer type.
- :guilabel:`DGI Main Branch Code`: This is part of the XML when creating an electronic document. If
  this field is not set, all electronic documents will be rejected.

  To find the *DGI Main Branch Code*, follow these steps:

  #. From your :ref:`Uruware account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`, go to :menuselection:`Servicios en

>      línea DGI --> Registro único tributario --> Consulta de datos`.

Reviewer 2: Hello @samueljlieber and @ewa-odoo 

Sorry, checking this part, what we're pointing is to the reference from the DGI (and it is correct)... But there are 2 options here, change the "ref: 'Uruware account' to DGI or, the instructions change them to the way they should find the Branch code in Uruware. Both are correct. My opinions is to the first (change to DGI) since at this point the Uruware account has not been created.

Let us know please.

Thanks!

fernando

@marianaluz

Reviewer 2: Hey @samueljlieber 

This one was pending, as I can see

```suggestion
  #. From your :ref:`DGI account <https://servicios.dgi.gub.uy/serviciosenlinea>`, go to :menuselection:`Servicios en
     línea DGI --> Registro único tributario --> Consulta de datos`.
```

Not sure if this is the way to put in the DGI website, but you can add it the right way ;).

Cheers!

Fernando

Reviewer 2: Hi @samueljlieber I don't see this change yet, could you please check? 😬

  #. Then, select :menuselection:`Consulta de Datos Registrales --> Consulta de Datos de Entidades`.
  #. Next, open the generated PDF to get the *DGI Main Branch Code* from the :guilabel:`Domicilio
     Fiscal Número de Local` section.

After configuring the company in the database settings, navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts` and
search for your company to verify the following:

- Company type is set to :guilabel:`Company`.
- Verify the :guilabel:`Identification Number` :guilabel:`Type` is :guilabel:`RUT / RUC`.

.. _l10n_uy/uruware-account:

Set up Uruware account
----------------------

To generate electronic documents in Odoo, a Uruware account is necessary.

To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the
proceeding steps:

Locate the Uruware credentials settings by navigating to the :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configurations --> Settings --> Localización Uruguaya`. Take a note of the admin email address that

> is set, this will be the same email used in Uruware's portal. Click on :guilabel:`Create Uruware

Reviewer 2: Hello @samueljlieber and @ewa-odoo 

I suggest to add a tip box with the following "Enter the email of the administrator or project leader. Avoid using the same email as the one used for communication with the DGI" or add it in parenthesis after email used in Uruware's portal, this way users will know which email to use easier.

Cheers!

Fernando

@marianaluztorres

Account`.

.. note::
   This action will create an account with Uruware with the following information:

   - Legal name (razón social)
   - RUT from the company
   - Administrator email
   - User name and last name
   - Odoo database link

   To ensure your account is created correctly, please add any missing information from above.

Once the account is created, a confirmation email is sent to the email used to create the account,
containing the account credentials to configure the account directly in the Uruware portal:

- Testing portal: https://odootest.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/
- Production portal: https://prod6109.ucfe.com.uy/Gestion/

Use the account credentials in the email to log in to the portal.

.. important::
   Be sure to configure a testing account and a production account in the Uruware portal. The same
   Uruware account can be used for both environments.

Electronic invoice data
-----------------------

To configure the electronic invoice data, an environment and credentials need to be configured. To

> do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Taxes`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configurations --> Uruguayan Localization`.
```

First, select the :guilabel:`UCFE Web Services` environment:

- :guilabel:`Production`: for production databases. In this mode, electronic documents are sent to
  |DGI| through Uruware for their validation.
- :guilabel:`Testing`: for test databases. In this mode, the direct connection flows can be tested,
  with the files sent to the |DGI| testing environment through Uruware.
- :guilabel:`Demo`: files are created and accepted automatically in demo mode but are **not** sent
  to the |DGI|. For this reason, rejection errors will not appear in this mode. Every internal
  validation can be tested in demo mode. Avoid selecting this option in a production database.

> Then, enter the :guilabel:`Uruware Credentials`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, enter the :guilabel:`Uruware Data`:
```

- :guilabel:`Uruware WS Password`
- :guilabel:`Commerce Code`
- :guilabel:`Terminal Code`

.. image:: uruguay/electronic-invoice-data.png
   :alt: Required information for electronic invoice.
   :align: center

.. note::
   These credentials can be obtained from the Uruware portal, after configuring the :ref:`Uruware

>    account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`. The WS Password is different from the password you use to enter your Uruware account.
```

>    These credentials can be obtained from the Uruware portal, after configuring the :ref:`Uruware
>    account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This data can be obtained from the Uruware portal, after configuring the :ref:`Uruware
   account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`. The WS Password is different from the password you use to enter your Uruware account.
```

Once you have configured your database, you can create your documents.

Sales documents
---------------

Customer invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:doc:`Customer invoices <../accounting/customer_invoices>` are electronic documents that, when
validated, are sent to |DGI| via Uruware. These documents can be created from your sales order or
manually. They must contain the following data:

- :guilabel:`Customer`: type the customer's information.
- :guilabel:`Due date`: to compute if the invoice is due now or later (*contado* or *crédito*,
  respectively).
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the electronic sales journal.
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: document type in this format, for example, `(111) e-Invoice`.
- :guilabel:`Products`: specify the product(s) with the correct taxes.

.. note::
   Every document type has a specific credit note and debit note (e.g., the document type
   :guilabel:`(111) e-Invoice` has an :guilabel:`(112) e-Invoice Credit Note`).

Customer credit note
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`Customer credit note <../accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes>` is an electronic
document that, when validated, is sent to |DGI| via Uruware. It is necessary to have a validated

> (posted) invoice to register a credit note. On the invoice there is a button named :guilabel:`Credit
> note`, click this button to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note` form, then complete

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(posted) invoice to register a credit note. On the invoice, click the :guilabel:`Credit note` button to access the :guilabel:`Create credit note` form, then complete the following information:

```

the following information:

- :guilabel:`Reason`: type the reason for the credit note.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the journal that has to be electronic and has the :guilabel:`Use
  Documents?` option active.
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: select the credit note document type.
- :guilabel:`Reversal Date`: type the date.

Customer debit note
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`Customer debit note <../accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes>` is an electronic
document that, when validated, is sent to |DGI| via Uruware. It is necessary to have a validated

> (posted) invoice to register a debit note. On the action within an invoice there is a option named
> :guilabel:`Debit note`, click on this action to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(posted) invoice to register a debit note. On the invoice, click the :icon:`cog` icon (:guilabel:`action menu`), select the :guilabel:`Debit note` option to access the :guilabel:`Create credit note`
```

- :guilabel:`Is legend`: Select this box if the text is a mandatory disclosure, leave it blank if it
  is additional information.
- :guilabel:`Content`: Add the complete text of the addenda or disclosure.

Leyenda and additional information in product
---------------------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the product and XML, it is necessary to add the
preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the product in the invoice line. The field called
:guilabel:`Disclosure` will be used to add the leyenda to the product specified in the line.

Leyenda and additional information
----------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the electronic document and XML, it is necessary to
add the preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the document using the field :guilabel:`Addenda and
Disclosures` that can be found in the *Other Info* tab in the document form view. The addenda and
disclosures added here will appear in the XML and visibly in the PDF document.

This applies to the following types of addendas:

- Document
- Issuer
- Receiver
- Addendas

.. note::

>    To add a temporary note to the electronic document, use the *Terms and Conditions* field, this
>    information will be sent in the addenda of the invoice, but it won't be saved for future
>    documents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   To add a temporary note to the electronic document, use the :guilabel:`Terms and Conditions` field. This
   information will be sent in the addenda of the invoice, but it won't be saved for future documents.

```

=======
Uruguay
=======

.. |DGI| replace:: :abbr:`DGI (Dirección General Impositiva)`
.. |EDI| replace:: :abbr:`EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)`
.. |CAEs| replace:: :abbr:`CAEs (Constancia de Autorización de Emisión)`

.. _uruguay/intro:

Introduction
============

With the Uruguayan localization, you can generate electronic documents with its XML, fiscal folio,
electronic signature and connection to tax authority Dirección General Impositiva (DGI) through
Uruware.

The supported documents are:

- e-Invoice, e-Invoice Credit Note, e-Invoice Debit Note;
- e-Ticket, e-Ticket Credit Note, e-Ticket Debit Note;

> - Export e-Invoice, Export e-Invoice Credit Note, Export e-Invoice Debit Note.

Reviewer 2: Hello @auva-odoo 

Thanks for the review, but here it actually makes sense to have them capitalized, because each is a type of document and that's the way they are called in the database. This time we did it on purpose 😉. 

Cheers!

Fernando 

@samueljlieber

> - Export e-Invoice, Export e-Invoice Credit Note, Export e-Invoice Debit Note.

Reviewer 3: Then in this case we should use the :guilabel: formatting too :slightly_smiling_face:

> - Export e-Invoice, Export e-Invoice Credit Note, Export e-Invoice Debit Note.

Reviewer 2: Agreed! 😉

- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`

- :guilabel:`Tax ID`: Enter the identification number for the selected taxpayer type.
- :guilabel:`DGI Main Branch Code`: This is part of the XML when creating an electronic document. If
  this field is not set, all electronic documents will be rejected.

  To find the *DGI Main Branch Code*, follow these steps:

  #. From your :ref:`Uruware account <l10n_uy/uruware-account>`, go to :menuselection:`Servicios en
     línea DGI --> Registro único tributario --> Consulta de datos`.
  #. Then, select :menuselection:`Consulta de Datos Registrales --> Consulta de Datos de Entidades`.
  #. Next, open the generated PDF to get the *DGI Main Branch Code* from the :guilabel:`Domicilio
     Fiscal Número de Local` section.

After configuring the company in the database settings, navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts` and
search for your company to verify the following:

- Company type is set to :guilabel:`Company`.
- Verify the :guilabel:`Identification Number` :guilabel:`Type` is :guilabel:`RUT / RUC`.

.. _l10n_uy/uruware-account:

> Set up Uruware account

Reviewer 2: Maybe "an Uruware", @auva-odoo ? 

@samueljlieber

----------------------

> To set up a Uruware account, first be sure to have a valid Odoo subscription. Then follow the

Reviewer 2: Yep, this is only for enterprise users only. Community users will not be able to create an account in Uruware. (We pay for each account)

enter the following information:

- :guilabel:`Company Name`
- :guilabel:`Address`:

  - :guilabel:`Street`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.
  - :guilabel:`City`
  - :guilabel:`State`
  - :guilabel:`ZIP`
  - :guilabel:`Country`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

- :guilabel:`Identification Number`:

  - :guilabel:`Type`: select a identification type.
  - :guilabel:`Number`: required to confirm an electronic invoice.

Review taxes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As part of the Uruguay localization module, taxes are automatically created with its configuration
and related financial accounts.

.. image:: uruguay/taxes.png
   :alt: Taxes for Uruguay.

Review document types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some accounting transactions like *customer invoices* and *vendor bills* are classified by document
types. These are defined by the government fiscal authorities, in this case by the |DGI|.

Each document type can have a unique sequence per journal where it is assigned. The data is created
automatically when the localization module is installed, and the information required for the
document types is included by default.

> To review the document types included in the localization, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting
> --> Configurations --> Document Types`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To review the document types included in the localization, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Configuration --> Document Types`.
```

.. note::
   In Uruguay, |CAEs| **must** be uploaded in Uruware. Sequences (and PDFs) are received in Odoo
   from Uruware, based on their |CAEs|. |CAEs| are **only** used in production. When testing, only a
   range of sequences used in Uruware need to be set.

.. image:: uruguay/document-types.png
   :alt: Document types for Uruguay.

Sales journals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To generate and confirm an electronic document that will be validated by |DGI|, the sales journal
needs to be configured with the following:

- :guilabel:`Invoicing Type`: manual invoices are for open invoices previously stamped in another
  system, for example directly in the |DGI|. Electronic invoices will not be sent to Uruware.
- :guilabel:`Use Documents?`: Activate this option if this journal will use documents from the list
  of document types in Odoo.

Workflows
=========

Once you have configured your database, you can create your documents.

Sales documents
---------------

Customer invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> :guilabel:`Customer invoices` are electronic documents that, when validated, are sent to |DGI| via

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Customer invoices are electronic documents that, when validated, are sent to |DGI| via
```
I would not use guilabel here since we're talking about the general term/concept. I would, however, add a reference to the relevant doc.

Uruware. These documents can be created from your sales order or manually. They must contain the
following data:

- :guilabel:`Customer`: type the customer's information.

> - :guilabel:`Due date`: to compute if the invoice is due now or later (contado or crédito
>   respectively).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Due date`: to compute if the invoice is due now or later (*contado* or *crédito*,
  respectively).
```

- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the electronic sales journal.
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: document type in this format, for example, `(111) e-Invoice`.

> - :guilabel:`Products`: specify the product with the correct taxes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Products`: specify the product(s) with the correct taxes.
```

.. note::

>    Every document type has a specific credit note and debit note (e.g., the document type *(111)
>    e-Invoice* has an *(112) e-Invoice Credit Note*).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Every document type has a specific credit note and debit note (e.g., the document type :guilabel:`(111)
   e-Invoice` has an :guilabel:`(112) e-Invoice Credit Note`).
```

:guilabel:`Debit note`, click on this action to be directed to the :guilabel:`Create credit note`
form, then complete the following information:

- :guilabel:`Reason`: type the reason for the debit note.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: select the journal that has to be electronic and has the :guilabel:`Use
  Documents?` option active.
- :guilabel:`Copy lines`: mark checkbox to copy the invoice lines to the debit note.
- :guilabel:`Debit note date`: type the date.

.. note::
   Confirm the invoice and it will be created with an internal reference. To send the document to
   |DGI| via Uruware, click on :guilabel:`Send and Print` and select the checkbox :guilabel:`Create
   CFE`. The legal document sequence (number) is brought from Uruware once the document has been
   processed. Make sure you have |CAEs| available in Uruware.

.. note::
   The PDF of the validated document is pulled from Uruware following the specification by the
   Uruguayan government (DGI).

Addendas and disclosures
========================

*Addendas* and *disclosures* are additional notes and comments added to an electronic document that

> can be mandatory or optional. To create a new addenda, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Settings
> --> DGI --> Addendas and disclosures`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
can be mandatory or optional. To create a new addenda, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Addendas and disclosures` and click :guilabel:`New`.
```

> To create an addenda, the following information is required:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enter the the following information:
```
so we don't repeat *To create an addenda*

Reviewer 2: Just remove one of the "the"s 😅, thanks @samueljlieber

Reviewer 2: No worries! Thanks a lot! 😉

- :guilabel:`Name`: Name of the addenda or mandatory disclosure.
- :guilabel:`Type`: Select the type of remark, this will add it to the specific section in the XML.
- :guilabel:`Is legend`: Select this box if the text is a mandatory disclosure, leave it blank if it
  is additional information.
- :guilabel:`Content`: Add the complete text of the addenda or disclosure.

Leyenda and additional information in product
---------------------------------------------

To add a leyenda or additional information to the product and XML, it is necessary to add the

> preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the product in the invoice line. The field called
> :guilabel:`Disclosure` will be used to add the leyenda to the product specified in the line.

Reviewer 3: Where is this field exactly? 
```suggestion
preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the product in the invoice line. Add the leyenda in the 
:guilabel:`Disclosure` field of the product specified in the line.
```
(not sure since I don't know where this field is, but I would avoid the phrasing "The field called XXX will be used" in any case :slightly_smiling_face: )

Reviewer 2: The field is in the product line of the invoice. I agree with your suggestion @auva-odoo. 

@samueljlieber

Leyenda and additional information
----------------------------------

> To add a leyenda or additional information to the electronic document and XML, it is necessary to
> add the preconfigured addenda and disclosure to the document using the field :guilabel:`Addenda and
> Disclosures` that can be found in the *Other Info* tab in the document form view. The addenda and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add a *leyenda* or additional information to the electronic invoice and XML, access the invoice, go to the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, and select the desired addenda in the :guilabel:`Addenda and
Disclosure`  field.
```
- It was a bit confusing for me to use *document* insterad of *invoice* here.
- To simplify the sentence

Reviewer 2: Makes sense @auva-odoo (we thought of document because it is also available in other electronic documents, but we were talking about invoices anyway). 

@samueljlieber
